REVIEW



PATTERNS


Pedro: FACADE

The use of the facade pattern could've been explained
in a more complete manner, such as mentioning how this 
pattern is intended to minimize dependencies between
subsystems. Yet, the explanation was accurate and concisive overall.


Joana: TEMPLATE

The explanation could've been worded a bit better,
in order to avoid misunderstanding it.
To say this pattern leaves an algorithm's implementation
details to its subclasses can be interpreted as a bit of
a generalization, since not all the steps of the algorithm
necessarily need to be handled in its subclasses, only some.
That said, it is still a fairly correct explanation.


Ana: OBSERVER

The explanation could be elaborated upon further and worded a bit better. 
The method to add a listener does not state that it is notified when 
being created, but rather that there might be some sort of callback 
mechanism to notify it when already "subscribed" to the subject.
The core concept of the observer pattern was grasped.


CODE SMELLS:


Joana: MESSAGE CHAIN

While the explanation itself is quite informative, 
the refactoring proposal could be more complete, as it lacks
some rationale behind the use of the law of
Demeter. Some of what this law states could've been 
touched upon, such as making it so that the method 
can only call other methods encapsulated within the 
same class or within a parameter of the method.
Other than that, solid explanation and possible solution.


Nelson: SWITCH STATEMENT

Both the explanation and the refactoring proposal are
informative, easy to understand and compact.
There is nothing to add.


Pedro: DATA CLASS

The explanation is clear and assertive.
As for the refactoring proposal, more solutions could've
been proposed as to merely delete the class and replace it 
with a variable. Perhaps ponder if such a class could
have something else placed in it or what other classes 
handle this very same data.
Overall, decent explanation and refactoring proposal.



